Welcome back, everyone.
In this video, we're going to cover the remaining solution four part three and Task five introduces
a new topic known as flash attribute.
A flash attribute contains data that survives a redirect.
And so what would be the purpose of doing this?
Well, let's imagine that the user initiated a post request and will submit intercepts this post request
and whether they want to add a new object to the data store or update an existing object.
Either way, this form submission is going to succeed and right after the post request is made, it's
going to redirect the user to make another request on slash inventory, and then inventory is going
to display the updated data store.
Now what if inside of inventory we want to have a nice big banner that says the form submission was
successful?
The problem is, the only way for us to know if the form submission is successful is right after the
form submission right here.
So here we would need to temporarily save a flash attribute.
The flash attribute would contain data that describes the status of our form submission.
In this case, let's just say we define a flash attribute with a key of status and a value of success.
And right after saving this flash attribute, we redirect the client to make a request on slash inventory.
The flash attribute is going to survive the redirect, and as soon as the get request reaches get inventory
data from the flash attribute is going to populate the model and then it's going to disappear.
But now we already have that data inside the model and then inside the inventory.
We can use that data to our advantage.
And now the only way to save data that can survive a redirect is inside of redirect attributes.
So inside of redirect attributes, we're going to add a flash attribute with key status.
And what should the value be?
It should be success.
But notice here that they're not just loosely defining a value of success.
They're declaring it as a constant.
So over two constants dot java, i'm going to say public static final string.
What was it called?
Oh, yes.
Success status is equal to success.
And just as we're about to redirect the user to make another request on slash inventory, we're going
to temporarily save a flash attribute with a key status that maps to a value of success.
Och.
And now by the time the get request reaches our handler method, our model is going to be populated
with data from the flash attribute.
And because our model contains this data, that means right before we return, the inventory view.
Finally, F is able to access it.
And so here it says.
To display the following div only if status equals success.
So I hope this made you think of the F attribute.
We'll say f f.
We will use a variable expression to grab the model attribute status and we're going to check if it
equals success.
If this evaluates the true, then this development is going to render.
I think we're ready to run our code.
We'll say local host.
80, 80.
Let's submit a couch.
300 bucks.
Any data, really submit the item and it says that we successfully submitted the item.
Now, if I don't go through a form submission and if I just make a plain old get request on slash inventory,
it just displays our table because now we're just making a plain old request to slash inventory.
And the only thing it's going to add to the model is the items array list and display that we're making
a lot of progress.
Task seven is to forbid updates if the new order date has a five day discrepancy from the previous one.
So what they're trying to say is if they decide to update this item with an order date that's five days
off from the previous one, then we're going to say, Hey, this is absurd.
We cannot allow it.
The logic has already been provided, so you can feel free to just copy it into your editor.
Huh?
Turns out I've already copied it.
Och.
And now here I can only allow updates if and only if the dates are within five days of each other.
So we're going to check if the new date from the post request item get date is the same as the date
inside of the object in our array list.
So we're going to grab the existing object at the index that we found.
And we'll compare the old date against the new date.
If they are within five days, we will allow the update.
Otherwise.
In this case, what I'll do is I'll set a string status.
At first it's going to equal a success status.
But if this doesn't execute, that means the user entered an invalid order date, which means we're
going to set the status equal to.
And I think instead of saying just failed, I'll create another constant.
That says failed status.
So if they break the rules, we're not going to do anything except set the status equal to failed constants
that failed status.
And the flash attribute will contain whatever the status of the form submission is.
And now.
The HTML that we're going to render in the event of a failed form.
Submission is the following.
So we'll see.
Finally, if.
The status.
Is failed.
Then we will display the following div.
Okay.
Um, I think we're done.
This was a long journey.
Let's say couch, 300 bucks, 50.99.
We'll say May 5th.
All right.
Now, what I'm going to do is make an update where the order date is within five days of the old one.
So we'll say.
I don't know.
March 9th.
Works perfectly.
But now I will make an update where the order date is a way off.
And we fail to submit the item.
It does not change.
Beautiful.
The last thing we have to do is visualize the runtime.
Now this is optional.
So if you fully understand what we did so far, by all means, feel free to skip it.
If you want to trace the runtime line by line with me, then you are more than welcome to.
So what I'm going to do.
Is apply breakpoints to handle submit.
Apply a break points to get inventory.
Think that should be good enough.
I'll run my application and debug mode.
Okay.
First thing I'll do is.
Let's change it up.
We'll say technology.
Laptop price $2,000 discount to 44.
We'll give it an order date of June 2nd.
Submit the item.
Let's see this in action.
I am excited.
So at first the status is going to start off as success.
It's going to add this item.
The status remains success.
And so here it's going to temporarily save a flash attribute with key status and value of success.
And this data is going to survive the redirect.
Here, we're redirecting the client to make another request to slash inventory.
And by the time the get request reaches get inventory, you'll notice that our model is already populated
with data from the flash attribute.
The data successfully survived the redirect and it was able to populate the model in the ensuing get
request.
That's beautiful.
This model is once again updated with another attribute.
The contents of our array list.
And so now right before it returns, the inventory view.
The status is success.
So this banner is going to display.
And the ArrayList has one item.
So it's going to generate one table row press next.
Great.
We successfully submitted the item.
If I just go to slash inventory.
No submissions were made.
So the only model attribute that gets added is the array list and it follows that we don't see any banners
or anything.
Now.
This was submitted on June the second.
If I try to make an update to this item such that it's more than five days off.
Will submit the item.
Okay.
First, the status starts off as success.
But this condition evaluated to false triggering the block, the status becomes failed.
The data that we're storing right before the redirect is a status of failed.
So by the time the redirected request reaches the get inventory handler method, the model contains
an attribute with a key of status that maps to a value of failed.
And so by the time we returned the inventory view.
The div that's going to be displayed is the following because status equals failed.
We step through it.
It says you fail to submit the item.
I hope you enjoyed this workbook so you'll realize by now that the challenges aren't always Hey, do
the exact same thing we did in the lessons.
They introduce new topics to challenge you, to think outside the box and do a little bit of your own
research.
So I hope this wasn't too hard.
The next section is going to be even more exciting as we tackle field validation.
So I cannot wait to see you there.